.TH "CA" "1" "2022-10-31" "ca 0.2" "Circa manual"
.hy
.SH NAME
.PP
ca - carbon nice scripting
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
ca [-\f[B]OPTION\f[R]] \f[I]TIMEFRAME\f[R] [\f[I]COMMAND\f[R]
[\f[I]argument\f[R]]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\f[B]ca\f[R] checks the Carbon Aware API for the optimal time in the
given \f[I]TIMEFRAME\f[R] to run the \f[I]COMMAND\f[R] to make use of
the lowest forecast carbon intensity energy.
If no \f[I]COMMAND\f[R] is supplied, the program will just block (sleep)
until that time.
.PP
\f[I]TIMEFRAME\f[R] can be given in hours, or a 1d12h30m format.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\f[B]-l\f[R] \f[I]location\f[R]
specify \f[B]location\f[R] to check for carbon intensity.
.TP
\f[B]-d\f[R] \f[I]duration\f[R]
estimated command/task \f[B]duration\f[R] in hours.
.TP
\f[B]-u\f[R] \f[I]url\f[R]
\f[B]url\f[R] prefix of Carbon Aware API server to consult OR full path
to Carbon Aware CLI.
.SH FILES
.TP
\f[B]/etc/circa.conf\f[R]
The system wide default configuration file.
.TP
\f[B]\[ti]/.circa/config\f[R]
Per user default configuration file.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
\f[B]ca 6h my-cpu-intensive-task.sh\f[R]
Find the half-hour with the lowest carbon footprint in the next 6 hours
to run the task in.
.TP
\f[B]ca -d 2h 8h notify-send \[lq]Lower Carbon Energy Available\[rq] \[lq]Why not plug in your charger?\[rq]\f[R]
Pop up a reminder to charge your laptop for a couple of hours.
.TP
\f[B]0 0 * * * /usr/local/bin/ca -d 20m 6h /path/to/my/daily-report-script.sh\f[R]
Find the best 20 minutes between midnight and 6am to run your report in
using cron.
.SH LICENCE
.PP
Copyright \[co] 2022 Andrew Wood.
MIT License: <https://mit-license.org/>
.SH AUTHORS
Andy Wood (woodcoder).
